[MUSIC PLAYING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
>>MATIAS DE STEFANO: And there
was a picture of the pyramids.
When I saw it everything,
moved like in a tunnel.
And I was a woman, and
I was really worried.
That was the first
memories I got.
Emotion is basically a
chakra moving constantly,
so the best way to
transmit an information
from one time to another
is through the emotion
because it's like a train
with all the wheels.
So our mind is creating
an idea of how good it
is to not feel that.
But our body is saying,
yeah, but to get there
you have to go through pain.
We are evolving so fast that we
cannot be aware of how good we
are.
Basically, that's the
politics of democracy
and that worked for
thousands of years
because there was no phones.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: Today we have
the tools to be connected,
to have a voice.
But in order to
get there, we need
to leave a huge crisis, which
is the crisis of being a sheep.
>>REGINA: We're out of time,
but I want to ask you one thing.
What are some of the things
you just love doing or eating
or whatever?
[THEME MUSIC]
Many of you watching this one
are familiar with Matias De
Stefano.
He's brought a wealth of
knowledge from his past lives
to all of us over the
last couple of years
and really has so
much more to offer
in terms of the mechanics
of it, such as the notion
that emotions are
what really ground us
into a lot of our past lives.
We're going to talk about
that in a whole lot more.
Welcome, Matias.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, thank
you for inviting me.
>>REGINA: Yes, it's
so good to see you.
So let's just start a little
bit at the beginning right now,
and that is as a
teenager, and what
started happening in history
class to you in this lifetime.
>>DE STEFANO: Well, it's
been all my life for sure
that I had this connection
with other beings
from other dimensions
that for me were just
part of the family.
I had no idea that they
were from other sides.
And there was one day when I was
12 years old that they told me,
you won't see us anymore.
You won't be able to watch
us to see our shapes anymore,
but you will start to remember.
Next Sunday-- next Monday,
you will start to remember.
So pay attention to
everything we taught to you,
and just write it down
and make drawings.
Don't let it in your mind.
That was the only advice.
And so I stopped
seeing them, and--
>>REGINA: How was that for you?
>>DE STEFANO: That
was very tough
because it was like
losing part of the family.
Like if they just
said, OK, we have
to move to another country and--
>>REGINA: Left you.
>>DE STEFANO: Maybe we
can call sometime, but--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
You're an orphan.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
yeah, it felt like that.
It was like losing my gran--
like a big brother or
something like this,
like other family, someone
who was guiding me.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
so now here we go.
You're on your own.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And let's hop to when
you start experiencing things
through common information that
was coming up in your life,
and boom, the
memories come back.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, so that
Monday or Tuesday I think.
We had this history
class, and the teacher
gave us these copies with
like ancient history.
So from the very beginning,
very beginning 3,500 years--
>>REGINA: Oh, when
humanity began.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, well, the
first civilizations and stuff.
And there was a picture
of the pyramids,
which until that moment
for me was nothing.
But when I saw it, I had a
headache, like a pain here,
and I just saw like everything
move like in a tunnel.
And I saw the
pyramids, only one.
Actually it took many years
until I saw the three.
I was only seeing one,
the one and the middle.
>>REGINA: Was that because you
were seeing from different time
frames?
>>DE STEFANO: I thought it
was different time frame,
but also I thought
that I was emotionally
linked to that pyramid
even more than the others.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>DE STEFANO: So my mind just
got rid of the other ones
and said--
>>REGINA: Focused on
what was important, yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: But
I saw it white,
and everything was
very different.
There were trees.
>>REGINA: Well, it was
covered at one time
in white-- it was white.
I don't know if
it was limestone,
but it was covered in white.
Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: And
white and alabaster.
>>REGINA: Alabaster,
correct, yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: So
they were shining--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: Like
stars on Earth,
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: And I saw that
image, and the second image
I had was in front
of the Sphinx,
which was like a red lion.
And I was a woman
aside of my husband,
and I was really worried.
And that was the first
memories I got that day.
And from that moment on, every
day, I had another memory.
Sometimes it was
part of the language.
Sometimes something that
happened in my family.
happened in the village.
So it was all mixed.
I couldn't really put the
whole picture together
until I was like 17, 18.
>>REGINA: And what
did you figure out?
What was that story about?
Why was it important
you were seeing it?
>>DE STEFANO: I realized that
I was remembering that story
because I was in the
mirror time of that story,
like I am right at the other
side of the timeline of that.
So I'm mirroring that moment.
That's why for me was more
important than all the rest.
And also because I
decided something
in that moment in that life
that I said in that time,
I had to finish it in my
mirrored time, which is now.
>>REGINA: OK, so what did it--
A, we'll get into mirrored time.
What is it you had to finish?
>>DE STEFANO: I had to do a
reconnection of the network
of consciousness.
For that time, it was different
because it was Leo time,
so it was all about the
governments and the families,
the structure of the main
families ruling the planet
and trying to settle the power
in the main sources, which
were like the pyramids or other
pyramids around the world.
And for the new
time, it would be
networks, how every individual
should be its own government
and creating a new network
besides the pyramids,
like creating it
in a different way.
>>REGINA: Which is the
timeline we're in now.
That's what's
required of us now.
Did you get a sense of the
dynastic period at all?
>>DE STEFANO: Dynastic, no.
Well, it was a dynasty,
but it was not Egyptian.
OK,
>>REGINA: OK, it wasn't--
>>DE STEFANO: It was
Egypt, but it was not--
>>REGINA: It was not.
So it might have been even--
>>DE STEFANO: Egyptian culture.
>>REGINA: OK, so if some
of the people and some
of the traditions that
talk about the age
of the Great Pyramid put it at
85,000 to 200,000 years old,
you could have been
looking at history prior
to any of the dynastic periods.
>>DE STEFANO: Yes, of course.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: The
people in Egypt
that were from the
dynastic period, they
rebuilt the pyramids.
They did some works.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: Repairing them.
>>REGINA: They weren't
the originators.
>>DE STEFANO: But they
weren't the original ones
creating them.
>>REGINA: OK, now let's talk
about the opposite timeline
and what you mean by that.
I mean, there are
some theories that
may very well be
true that everything
has its mirrored opposite.
So whatever we are in now has
us in our mirrored opposite
in that timeline.
Explain it how you
see it, understand it,
and why-- how did
you know that was it?
Because of what
you know and came
to do that you figured that
out, or is there something maybe
more linear as an explanation?
>>DE STEFANO: Well, I understood
that when I was 16 or 17,
I guess, about how we
can interpret things,
like for example, from the
third dimension point of view
or the fourth
dimension point of view
is dependent on which dimension
you want to explain something.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: It changes,
so it's not linear.
The explanation
is not like, this
happens because of
this and this and this.
It's according to which
dimension you explain it.
So from our point of
view, that is the past,
so it's something
that already happened.
And that condition,
our civilization today,
through time.
From the point of view
of the fourth dimension,
that is still happening.
And because that's
still happening,
it's conditioning us
today as our actions today
is conditioning what
is happening there,
so it depends on
the point of view.
But the thing is that
all in the universe
has a positive and a
negative, and everything
flows in a cycle, ups
and downs, in and out.
So everything moves in
this kind of cycles.
So when we talk about time,
a way of understanding this
is like talking about vibration.
Vibration is like the space
point of view of the universe,
so everything is vibrating.
And the frequency is the time
point of view of the space.
So frequency is basically
how many times that vibration
moves through space.
And so you can calculate
the time through--
>>REGINA: This can be
very short or very long.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Explanation--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: Or fast.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: So
that's the frequency.
Frequency is how many--
>>REGINA: Intervals.
>>DE STEFANO:
Intervals you have.
So when we relate that to
the movement of the planet--
for example, the planet
moves like 72 degrees.
Its axis, it moves in a circle,
spinning 72 degrees every--
it moves every 200 years
or something like that.
I don't remember exactly.
But it is spinning constantly,
so it moves its axis
pointing in a new star, Northern
Star, every 2,500 years.
So that means that when
it makes the whole turn,
it's in the same point,
so kind of the same things
would happen.
So the opposite
side is the one that
reflects what is happening,
so it's like a clock.
>>REGINA: So could you
say in your personal life,
you had started something that
wasn't completed at that time,
and it took until
this time around
in that kind of frequency
band before you were ready.
So that would be called
your mirrored timeline
before you were ready to
resonate back with that
and pick it up and
take it further.
>>DE STEFANO: Yes, it's like--
>>REGINA: So it doesn't
have a determinate number
of years in it.
It's determined
on the situation.
>>DE STEFANO: Yes.
It's on the situation.
It's like if you have a circle,
like a clock, with many chords.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: OK so those chords
are resounding constantly,
but the only way the
chord can sound perfectly
is if one side and the other
side, the opposite side
are very well tied.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: So if there is
a tension between the lines.
That means that
whatever happens here
in the opposite will create
a possibility in this one.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: So it will resound
if we are very well known--
if we have awareness of
what happens the other side.
>>REGINA: So as
an example, you're
talking about something
that could have happened 20,
30, 40, 50,000
years ago, wherever
it was pegged in predynastic
Egypt into this day and time.
But on the other
hand, maybe it was
something that happened 80 years
ago in another lifetime that
was started and the resonance
was created and is now
going to be picked up.
Would that be considered
still it's opposite timeline?
>>DE STEFANO: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>DE STEFANO: Yes,
yes, it's always--
>>REGINA: It's the
resonance that's created.
>>DE STEFANO: It's not
the specific moment--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: Every
moment has its own--
>>REGINA: Well, that's helpful.
>>DE STEFANO: Its own line.
>>REGINA: So you spin something
into motion in one lifetime,
whenever that was,
and there comes
a time when you come
back into resonance
to complete or carry forward.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
because the resonance
that I set in that moment are
flowing through the resonance
to these moments.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: So I'm receiving
directly that information.
And the reason why
I am receiving it
is because I did
everything in that moment
so I could listen to
myself in this moment.
So most of the people
don't do exactly that way.
It's just most of
the people just
let it go through the
biological way, which takes--
>>REGINA: A long time.
>>DE STEFANO: Long time
and many misconceptions
of what is happening.
So some people, they just
throw a line straight instead
of doing the whole turn.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: So
that's why some people
can remember exactly what
happened in the opposite time.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK, thank you for sharing that.
Another thing you talk about
is the notion of emotions
and how emotion plays into our
being able to resonate back
into a period or
forward into a period,
and we can talk about that.
What is the role of emotion
in past life recall?
>>DE STEFANO: Well, emotion
basically means a motion.
It's movement, that's the word.
So everything that is in
movement has an emotion.
That's basically what it is.
So we move through emotions,
which are basically
the hormones, the reactions
of our glands making
hormones that activate the body,
the neurons to do an action.
So what we call an emotion is
not something outside our body,
but it's something
produced in our body
through motion of energy.
So in order for something
to be able to move,
it needs a positive
and a negative energy
that creates polarity.
Polarity creates movement
because of magnetism,
so it spins, so
that's the movement,
and that's what creates this
movement constantly like this.
That we used to
call in Sanskrit,
like in India, chakra.
Chakra means wheel, basically
something that is moving.
So emotion is basically a
chakra moving constantly,
which allows us to move forward.
So what this means that the
information in the universe
is storage through movement.
It constantly evolving.
Evolving basically
means to roll down,
so it's something that
is constantly moving.
So the best way to
transmit an information
from one time to another
is through the emotion,
because it's like a train
with all the wheels moving.
>>REGINA: It doesn't also
have almost like a magnetic,
more magnetic quality to it
that kind of draws you almost
in a sticky way into
the visceral reality
of the emotion, which also
means trauma, which is--
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, all
the levels of emotion.
>>REGINA: All of it throughout
our history of incarnations.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: All the emotions,
the most horrible ones,
the darkest one til
the most light ones,
they are all like a library.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: They are
storages of information.
>>REGINA: And part
of the subconscious
that carries forward.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
So we have all the
emotions that our ancestors
and our previous lives
have been feeling,
so they shaped us
where we are now.
So through emotions,
we can awaken what
was happening in that time.
That's why when we tried
to remember a past life,
usually it comes
with an emotion,
and it's through the emotion
that we can remember it better.
>>REGINA: Yes.
In fact, looking at it
through the lens of emotion,
it seems that a lot of time
when people go into past lives,
it is trauma that kind
of draws them back.
Because clearly
when there's trauma,
there's something
that's been blunted
and has not been allowed to be
properly handled or finished
or whatnot.
So it makes sense you want
to transform that ultimately.
But what's interesting
to me is it
seems that when you have the
density of those emotions
in trauma, you can kind of go
back into it fairly easily.
When it's an event that is
very fine and ephemeral,
it doesn't have the
same stickiness and draw
and the same pulling power.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It almost
doesn't seem fair
that we can easily recall all
of this stuff that's painful
and all the beautiful,
beautiful ephemeral stuff seems
to have just floated away.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
Yes, well basically it's because
our mind is designed to expand,
but our body is
designed to survive.
What this means is that
the body is basically
a conjunction of cells
that has been evolving,
trying to survive in a
very hostile environment.
So the cells are trying to
pay attention to the pain--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: Not
the pleasure mainly.
>>REGINA: That
makes total sense.
Absolutely.
>>DE STEFANO: Because
if I feel pain,
that means that I will
understand where is
the problem so I can solve it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: Our mind--
our brain, sorry,
our brain has been
designed to interpret the
pain so it can live longer.
So all our body is
assigned to pay attention
to the conflicts and the
pain, the suffering--
>>REGINA: For the
survival of the physical.
>>DE STEFANO: For the
Yeah.
So our mind is creating
an idea of how good it
is to not feel that.
But our body is saying,
yeah, but to get there,
you have to go through pain,
so pay attention to pain.
That's why when we
remember a past life,
usually our brain
is saying, OK, let's
go to the trauma
to try to solve it,
because the mind is
like constantly looking
for a conflict in order to
try to solve the conflict
and make it pleasure
or make it more stable.
But in order to do that,
it has to go and look
for every painful thing.
So--
>>REGINA: It's on high alert,
looking for its threats.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly, yeah.
So while we live an animal
life, because we are still
living through that
animal state of survival
because we need
stuff to survive,
to eat, to live, to feel
secure, to have a partner,
all these kind of things
are animal point of view.
So all of these things
takes us to pain
because we are trying to
solve something to survive.
When you transcend
the survival, which
is you don't need
anything else, you're
just in another state of
level of consciousness
that you don't need anything--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: So
pain disappears.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: Because
the cell doesn't
need to survive anymore.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: So that's why
the enlightened ones, they
don't really suffer.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: But in
order to get enlightened,
they had to suffer
much than any other.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: Because
they needed to transcend.
>>REGINA: They had to
confront it, and yes--
>>DE STEFANO: Every
one of the cells.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>DE STEFANO: That's why when
you see in the past times,
when you see all the masters,
they have suffered so much.
They had to suffer a lot
in certain periods of time
so they could transcend
the pain of every cell
and to teach the cells,
each one of them,
that there is no
reason why you survive.
>>REGINA: You're safe.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
because we don't exist.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right, exactly.
OK, now let's take it out to
a mass consciousness scale.
And we could talk
for many, many hours
about the nature of mind--
higher mind, lower mind,
multidimensional mind.
And it could get so
esoteric and out there,
people would start
falling asleep probably.
>>DE STEFANO: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's focus
on collective trauma,
such as the inundations.
And I will say
personally, I went
through a regression
with Dolores Cannon
where I ended up--
I didn't know that's
where I was going--
I ended up in the
final day of one
of the Atlantis destructions.
And the mass trauma that
was created at that time
created a really
directive that we
needed to go into
a state of amnesia
in subsequent incarnations
because too much had
been lost that we'd have
no incentive to incarnate.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Blasted ourselves
to the Stone Age, so to speak,
and that's a whole other story.
So here we-- so
many people are here
now that have these incredibly
deep wounds collectively
from dying en masse--
whether it's an inundation,
whether it's explosion, land
masses, sinking, and so forth.
Let's talk about collectively
understood, agreed upon trauma.
>>DE STEFANO: Well, I will
try to take the human emotion
of this and trying to put
it outside of humanity--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: So we can
get it in a different way.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: We have
to think that humans,
besides our individual
consciousness,
we are basically
cells of a planet.
So we are evolving
cells in a planet
that we work as groups
in order to have synapses
so we can share information.
So when we are trying
to collectively like
an organism to--
we are trying to
transcend something
or to transform
something, we all
have to have the same action.
We all have to have
the same reaction.
>>REGINA: Yeah, collectively
agreed upon reality.
>>DE STEFANO: To
transform the whole thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: So when
you suffer yourself,
you are changing one
concept of your own group.
When you have a massive thing
can transcend that all together
as a big organism.
So let's say, for
example, we don't usually
think about this, but every one
of our organs inside our body,
imagine that every cell in that
organ is like a whole culture.
So if you drink Coke, let's
say, every day, for example,
your liver will start to say,
hey, I cannot handle this.
Maybe once a week I can.
So it's the organism,
the whole organism
that will start to suffer.
It's not just one
cell in that organism.
So the whole organism
will start to suffer,
and we'll start to suffer
the pain as a collective.
So the same thing happened in
the whole planet, with a group,
with a country, with a region.
So it's like an organ
feeling something
that is wrong that is
wrong and that we all
have to pay attention
because it's
a big part as an
organ inside a body.
So that memory creates
a transcendental idea
of a whole collective
mind that helps
to change faster something that
was stuck in that territory.
An earthquake, a war,
these kind of things
are something that
change completely.
As a massive suffering,
change completely
into another state
of consciousness.
I usually explain what happened
in the Second World War,
like it was horrible
what happened.
And what happened
took us to immediately
in a very fast way
to human rights,
to new countries being
born, to free speech--
>>REGINA: New technologies.
>>DE STEFANO: New technologies.
>>REGINA: Also having people
moved around involuntarily who
started falling in love
and having children
and creating whole new
DNA strands and bloodlines
from people mixing blood.
Wars do that.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
So it basically if that
war wouldn't happen,
we would be still like
if it is in the 1900s.
We would be still
living like that.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it's very true, yes.
>>DE STEFANO: So it was
a collective suffering
that pushed up the consciousness
of thousands of people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: And transformed
the world in the way
we see it today.
>>REGINA: And that
makes total sense.
Now let's look at where
you have everybody just
simply wiped out.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And now
everything's gone.
Your technology is gone.
Everything's gone except
your soul, of course.
I mean, the spirit still exists,
but the rest of everything
is pretty much gone.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So now
what is the benefit
in that where you have
kind of a total wipeout?
>>DE STEFANO: Like what?
>>REGINA: A wipeout, where most
of the population is gone from
a large region in--
>>DE STEFANO: Some
periods of time happened.
>>REGINA: Mass extinctions,
inundations, the Great Flood,
the Atlantean
destructions, and such.
Where do you see looking
back as the benefit
of those destructions
compared to something
like World War II,
which simply opened
a lot of different doors?
>>DE STEFANO: Well, that's a
problem that usually Christians
have.
Sorry.
>>REGINA: No, speak freely.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, so usually
Christianity and also but--
Christianity comes from
Judaism and also share
the same root with Islam.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: Those
main religions
has been designed
in a way of thinking
that there is a paradise
where everything is fine,
and that's our goal.
And we come from
suffering, and we
have to escape from
suffering because it
was a punishment from God, and
we have to escape from that.
>>REGINA: Oh, I was
raised that way.
>>DE STEFANO: OK.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
know about that.
>>DE STEFANO: Even--
>>REGINA: I didn't believe it.
>>DE STEFANO: Even though your
cells had the environment.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>DE STEFANO: Like
going to church
or listening to this kind of
things or going to synagogue,
and this kind of
thoughts like we
came from suffering because
God punished us because we did
something wrong, and now we
have to go to the Paradise
and do good things in
order to get inside.
So this kind of thoughts
had created an idea
that we are suffering and
we have to escape suffering.
But when you go to Asia, India,
and stuff, it's not like that.
It's like, oh, yeah, Shiva
is the destroyer of things--
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>DE STEFANO: So we can
create something new.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
So let's get into
that, these periods
where you've gained a
certain amount of evolution
as a species, a certain amount
of technological advancement,
and it's taken
away or it's gone.
It's suddenly gone.
So when you look at this from
a multi-dimensional point
of view, would you say it's
because that epoch period
of history had reached
the height of what it
was capable of and that was it.
It wasn't going to go
any further anyway?
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
it was just a period.
It's like the frequency
has the-- sorry,
the vibration has frequencies.
So you should never go this way
because this is not natural.
The natural thing
is the harmony--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: In
frequency and vibration.
We wouldn't be able to
talk without the silence.
We wouldn't be
able to have music
without the silence,
this kind of thing.
>>REGINA: Same in the body,
as you say, cellularly.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: The anabolism
and catabolism
of every cell, life and death.
>>DE STEFANO: You wouldn't
enjoy the sun without the night.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>DE STEFANO: And
this kind of thing.
So sometimes--
everything has a period.
So we evolve into a
state of consciousness,
and then we have to change
it to create a new one.
Because when even if you
create the perfect system,
eventually it will be the
worst system if it keeps going.
So for example, feudalism was
a perfect system for Europe.
Kingdoms was a perfect
system for Middle East.
But in this period, we
say, those are bad things.
Why?
It's because we are
going into another wave,
into democracy or
something different that
is coming with networks.
And democracy is now old too.
It's not working anymore, so
we have to go to another thing.
So this kind of
things, It doesn't
mean that democracy wasn't good,
that republics wasn't good,
that kingdoms weren't good,
that feudalism wasn't good,
that dictatorship wasn't good.
It was the perfect--
>>REGINA: Solution
in this moment.
>>DE STEFANO: Solution
in that moment.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: And there was
no other option that moment
because of the context.
>>REGINA: And also the
consciousness of the people.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: In that region
at that time, of course.
>>DE STEFANO: So
everything has to be--
it's hard to say destroy when
we talk about these things,
but it needs to be transformed.
So change the form
into another thing.
And every time that
we change something
and we are used to that
previous something,
we suffer because we don't
like that change because that's
all what we knew.
The cells were used to that.
So that's why everything
is like a kind of a crisis
when we transform.
But when you see
the whole history,
it was because of
those changes that we
were able to be who we are now.
It was because of the
explosion in Sumatra
72,000 years ago that we
basically became humans
as we know today.
It was because of the
glaciation in Europe
that humans spread along
Asia and North America.
It was because of the drought
in Africa created in the Sahara
that people left the
rainforest and left
to the rest of the world.
The wars in Middle East, not
this one, but the first ones
were the ones taking people
to advances in technology,
in religion, in everything new.
The conflicts in the
Mediterranean Sea
created the Greek philosophy.
So everything that today we
see as, oh, that was horrible,
was what helped us to
be what we are now.
And people is complaining
about this time,
but actually this time
is the best time we had--
>>REGINA: It's true.
>>DE STEFANO: In the
whole history of humanity.
>>REGINA: That's what I say.
I mean, 100 years ago,
we would literally
watch somebody being
hung on a Saturday
afternoon for entertainment.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And think
it was interesting.
I mean, actually entertainment
watching a person suffer.
That was very, very recently.
In some parts of the
world, it still exists.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yes, I agree with you.
>>DE STEFANO: So women couldn't
vote like, what, 50 years ago?
>>REGINA: 50 years ago.
It's like this half of
the world's population
didn't count.
Our minds, our thoughts,
our desires didn't matter.
>>DE STEFANO: So it's like we
are evolving so fast that we
cannot be aware of
how good we are.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: We cannot enjoy
the really good things that we
have accomplished because we are
thinking about the whole cares
that is in the world today.
And the only reason why we are
now understanding the conflicts
is because we have the internet.
Because--
>>REGINA: We're connected.
>>DE STEFANO: It always
happened, these kind of things.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: But we
were disconnected.
Now we are connected, we can
know everything that happens.
So that's why we say,
oh, this is a crazy time.
No--
>>REGINA: It's over mostly--
>>DE STEFANO: 2,000
years ago was a crazy--
>>REGINA: Crazy time.
It's true, and mostly
it's just overwhelm
of being essentially
shocked by so much all
at once, all the
time, every day,
and it's our own doing
in our own choice
that we're allowing
that to happen.
You brought up
democracy a bit ago,
and I'm going to talk
to you about what
you see is what comes next.
Democracy in the truest
sense of the word
is every vote, every person.
Every person matters
on this planet.
That's the truest
sense of democracy.
It's not even--
>>DE STEFANO: The power
of the population.
>>REGINA: That's right.
It's not a political thing.
So looking at it in the
way that everyone matters,
where do you see the
planet kind of going?
Everybody talks
about the years 2027
and these years coming up where
changes are going to happen.
What do you see as
that next way of--
I won't even say
politics, but let's use
that as a substitute word.
>>DE STEFANO: Well, I
would say government.
Government means
to sail in Greek,
because the first
governments in the world
were basically the king or the
representative going on a boat
to talk to another island.
So that idea was like, we
are governing an island.
We're governing.
So they were sailing from
one island to another
and talking to the leaders.
So politics is basically
the organizational structure
of a city, a Polis,
which is a small place.
So we are now a network,
so politics doesn't work--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: Because we
tried to put our politics
with our morality,
which means the way
we see things in one place
into a different place.
Like for example, we cannot
say how the Americans telling
the Arabian people how to live.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: It's like--
>>REGINA: It doesn't work.
>>DE STEFANO: No,
it doesn't work.
>>REGINA: It's been proven.
It doesn't work.
>>DE STEFANO: Yes.
>>REGINA: The British trying to
tell the Indians how to live.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, it doesn't work.
So each one of us has a unique
way of understanding reality,
of understanding the world.
So that's different
politics and that's good.
But--
>>REGINA: What do you see
governmentally as in terms
of bodies that have to
have some sort of say
on behalf of the people?
>>DE STEFANO:
Governmentally, the problem
is that even if we have
kind of a democracy,
which is not really democracy.
I call it a fake feudalism.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no,
I agree with that.
The way it's been
structured, yes.
>>DE STEFANO: It was
structured just because people
wanted to be part of
everything, so they
made it part of everything.
But they made it part of
feudalism, not democracy
really--
>>REGINA: Very true.
>>DE STEFANO: As it was designed
in Greek times 3,000 years ago.
So we kind of think
that we have democracy.
But these times are trying to
show us something different.
Governments are a person that
sails to another government--
to another place, sorry,
another politics to talk
in regard of these people.
So these people choose
this person to go and talk.
Basically that's a politics of
democracy and a government--
>>REGINA: Representation.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
a representation.
And that worked for
thousands of years
because there was no phones.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: Basically
we haven't had internet.
Today, everyone has a
voice from the-- sorry,
but from the most stupid person
to the most clever person,
we all have a voice.
>>REGINA: Even if
you're just filming
yourself popping bubblegum.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
>>REGINA: You have a voice.
>>DE STEFANO: You have a voice.
>>REGINA: And you could have
a million a lot of people
if you blow a big enough,
beautiful enough bubble.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
So talking about representative
today, it's very old.
Because today, the
people that has
the solutions for the
population are not
politics, are people
that have solutions.
And people that
have solutions can
talk to other people
that has the problem
and eventually solve them.
It doesn't matter
where they live.
Which before, it was very
different, very complicated.
So I'm thinking
that the next step
is to create another system
that the Greeks have never
talked about because
they had an internet.
So all the different
types of government
have been designed in a
world that wasn't connected.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: And today we
have the tools to be connected,
to have a voice, and to be able
to create projects and solve
problems to people without
anyone representing them.
But in order to
get there, we need
to leave a huge crisis, which
is the crisis of the shepherd,
the crisis of being a sheep.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: Basically--
>>REGINA: Behind--
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, and--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: And I always love
to tell this to the people.
The only reason
why shepherds exist
is because the sheeps
believe they are sheeps,
so they need a shepherd.
So it's because
of the people not
dealing with their own conflicts
that we need governments today.
So--
>>REGINA: And not wanting the
responsibility ultimately.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
Responsibility is
the first thing.
So if we don't take our
own responsibilities,
always will come someone
to take the responsibility,
so we cannot blame a politician
by taking the responsibility.
And those people take the power
just because we allow them to.
>>REGINA: So they're going to
become less and less relevant.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: But I guess one of
the things that we should do is
not fight against them, but
to build something different--
>>REGINA: Underneath.
Absolutely.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
so put our energy
in building something
new, and eventually
invite them to be part of it.
Because otherwise, you
create energy of conflict,
and you waste all the energy--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DE STEFANO: Just
trying to survive again.
>>REGINA: Whoever,
whatever is trying
to run a certain game
here, that's their game.
We don't have to play
the game anymore.
That's what you're saying.
We unplug from the game,
create the solutions,
connect together, become
a connected species,
which we are.
>>DE STEFANO: And also it's
important to know this,
there are countries and
regions in this world
or people in this world
that still need someone
to lead them.
>>REGINA: And leave it to that.
That's fine for that region.
>>DE STEFANO: They will
eventually get there,
they will eventually--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO:
Understand that, but we
are still thinking as animals,
as mammals needed someone
to lead.
And that's not a bad thing.
It's just that we all feel
that we don't need them,
but we don't know how
to handle our own lives.
So that's why I used to call
the new system ontrocracy, which
is the power of the being.
In order to get there,
you have to acknowledge
that you have the power, and
not the power of the government,
the power of your own life.
And in order to that, you
have to change many things--
how you eat, how you live,
how you relate with others.
So it's a very long process
to get to ontrocracy.
>>REGINA: It's starting.
>>DE STEFANO: It's starting.
>>REGINA: All the
little young beings
that are being born have
different preferences,
different ways of learning
than what happened 20,
50, 100, 150 years ago.
It's already starting
with each generation.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
it's a slow process.
>>REGINA: It's a slow process.
I don't think it's going to
be a revolution overnight.
It won't.
And I also want to bring
up the whole notion,
so we can talk about
it for a moment.
And that is the value in
having as Joan Grant called it,
far memory.
She had, like you,
splendid, detailed memories
of so many lifetimes as you do.
And as you bring
through your part,
you're bringing through what you
see, what you've experienced.
Other people are
bringing through
maybe from the same
period of history
where they were in the
story and what they see
and what they experienced.
And how important
it is for people
to start either
choosing to or allowing
themselves to understand they're
capable of it remembering--
because you and I were
talking off camera--
it's the tapestry of
everyone's memories together,
and you need some anchor
people like you that
have quite a lot of
memory to say, well,
this was kind of going on then.
So people can look at it
and say, oh, yeah, OK.
This is what I saw then too.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: To really start
understanding who we are
and what we've come from.
And so it's wonderful that
you've come in this lifetime
with far memory that encourages
other people to bring
their pieces and understanding
of those periods of time
to the table.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, there's--
>>REGINA: Lots of
voices are needed.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
there's no only one truth.
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>>DE STEFANO: There
is a fact that
has many ways of
seeing it as a truth.
So many truths, one fact.
And if you try to
explain the fact,
it won't be actually
the whole truth.
>>REGINA: No, because you can
say this happened at this time,
but there are 1,000
ways to interpret it.
>>DE STEFANO: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: So that's
why I love to say,
what I say is not the truth.
>>REGINA: It is a perspective--
>>DE STEFANO:
Perspective, exactly.
>>REGINA: And so this is another
one-- encouraging our children,
listening to our
little children.
These people have
memories they're
trying to bring through.
They just may not
have the exact words
that you understand and to
start encouraging people--
grandparents, parents,
friends of little children--
to start listening
to the things they're
saying about what
happened to them.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It's really important
to give them the confidence so
by the time they reach
teenagers like you,
they can really full on
start taking on their memory.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So any thought
about that, about just
the importance of all of
us starting to remember?
>>DE STEFANO: Yes, we are
living memory of this planet.
We don't remember
just because our cells
are trying to protect us.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: So when we
start to open ourselves
to the memory, we
will eventually
know that we all have
the ability to remember.
It's not just a few of
us that can remember.
One of the reasons I was
able to remember in this life
is because I never had the
limitations in my environment
to say, that's wrong or shut up.
>>REGINA: And that's huge.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, that's huge.
I was born in an
agnostic family.
But even though they
didn't believe in anything,
they were open to creativity.
So my mother was an artist.
She was painting, and
she loved to read books.
I don't, but she
loved to read books.
And so when I start
to tell the stories,
she was able to listen to me--
>>REGINA: Because
she loves story.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah,
she loves stories,
she loved all the things
that I was sharing.
And she was like, oh,
and what happened?
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
did that with my son.
It's wonderful to do
that, because there's
so much in the little child.
>>DE STEFANO:
Yeah, but sometimes
when we are conditioned
by our society
or don't talk this
with this person,
don't do this, or try to put
the memory or the thoughts
in only one current of thinking,
so you are conditioning
that person to forget.
So it's very important to
listen more than questioning.
Like listen to what they have to
say, not questioning or saying,
this is not like that
or this is not true.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DE STEFANO: Or you are
kidding me and this kind of--
>>REGINA: Don't try to
condition their experience.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, exactly.
And basically all the
geniuses, the people
that changed the
world, they did it
because they thought like
children, because they
had no limits in their minds and
they were playing with reality.
>>REGINA: In dream
time and this reality,
and they took them
both seriously.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DE STEFANO: And
that's something
that is very important for
us to remember as adults.
Remember that you are children
still because we are constantly
learning.
It's not a moment that
we say, oh we are adults
and we know everything.
No, we learn until the day
we die, so we are constantly
children.
And if you allow the children
to keep being children
and playing with the mind and
games and using imagination.
Imagination is something that
it seems like our societies have
designed only for kids.
And when you become
a teenager, you
can't use imagination anymore
because you are getting--
>>REGINA: You need
to get down to facts.
Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: You
have to go to facts,
and you have to
make good at school.
And you have to pay
attention to this.
Don't go to the moon and
blah, blah with ideas.
So when we are 13,
14 years old, we
are started to be
killed by society
by telling us what is true,
what you should not think.
And when you stop
imagination, you
stop many minds that
are able to remember--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DE STEFANO: To remember
not only the past but also
the future.
>>REGINA: Yes, and we can
have a whole other discussion
about that next time.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We're out of time,
but I want to ask you one thing.
You, Matias, the
kid in you, what
are some of the things
that just ground down
into the gravity of Earth life?
What are some of the things
you just love doing or eating
or whatever?
You, Matias.
>>DE STEFANO: I play a lot.
I love to still play like a kid.
>>REGINA: So what kind
of play do you do?
>>DE STEFANO: Well, I love
to go play in the rain.
Like yesterday,
we took bicycles,
for example, and right in
the rain and going to cinema
and doing crazy stuff,
going to play games and--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DE STEFANO: I don't know.
Do stuff with the mud or
I don't know, whatever--
>>REGINA: Anything that's play.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Play, imagination.
>>DE STEFANO: Going
always to new plays,
discover something new.
But maybe it's because my
moon is in Sagittarius.
>>REGINA: Oh, well,
that's part of it.
It could be that simple.
>>DE STEFANO:
Yeah, but I usually
keep the inner child
very alive all the time.
I make a lot of jokes.
I lose some followers
because of that.
>>REGINA: Keep on
losing followers.
It's OK.
>>DE STEFANO: Yeah, sometimes
I do that on purpose.
>>REGINA: Yes, good.
If people are being
overly sensitive,
they're not getting
the message anyway.
Fabulous.
Well you do.
You have this wonderful playful,
very, very, very youthful-- you
are young, but even more
youthful energy about you
and a sparkle in your eyes.
So you can see that
you're constantly
remembering, renewing,
regenerating,
and that's a lovely
thing to see.
And it's lovely having
you with me on set,
and let's have another
conversation later maybe
about future.
>>DE STEFANO: Sure.
>>REGINA: Thanks.
You can go to at least four
dozen other shows of Matias,
here on Gaia and dive
deeper into this and many
of his other topics.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]